# Ansible Role: Base System

Ansible role that configures a host to a baseline configuration. This role performs the following tasks:

* Installs common system utilities and guest agents for hypervisors (currently only QEMU)
* Configures the system hostname, locale, timezone, and OpenSSH
* Manages local users and groups
* Installs customized default configurations for tmux and vim

## Requirements

None.

**Currently, this role has only been tested on Debian systems.**

## Role Variables

### Packages

* `system_install_packages`: List of packages to install. By default, some common utilities, such as bash, nano, htop, rsync, and vim will be installed.
* `system_install_packages_state`: Install the mentioned packages

### Timezone, locale, hostname

* `system_hostname`: System hostname
* `system_timezone`: System timezone, using [tz database format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tz_database), example: `America/Chicago`
* `system_locale`: System locale, example: `en_US.UTF-8`

### Guest agent

* `system_qemu_agent_install`: Install the QEMU guest agent if KVM is the detected hypervisor
* `system_qemu_agent_package`: QEMU Guest Agent package name (qemu-guest-agent)
* `system_qemu_agent_service_name`: QEMU Guest Agent service name (qemu-guest-agent)
* `system_qemu_agent_service_state`: Start the guest agent service
* `system_qemu_agent_service_enabled`: Enable the guest agent service on boot

### Users and groups
* `system_users`: Users managed by Ansible, in the format of:

```
# - name: User name
#   uid: User ID number
#   comment: Comment/GECOS field
#   password_hash: Password generated by `mkpasswd --method=sha-512`
#   groups: List of groups to add the user to
#   shell: User's shell, defaults to system_default_shell
#   state: User state, defaults to system_user_default_state
```

* `system_groups`: Groups managed by Ansible, in the format of:

```
# - name: Group name
#   gid: Group ID number
#   state: Group state, defaults to system_group_default_state
```

* `system_user_default_state`: Default state of users. Should be present.
* `system_user_delete_home`: Delete home directory on users set to absent.
* `system_group_default_state`: Default state of groups. Should be present.
* `system_user_default_shell`: Default shell for users managed by Ansible. Defaults to bash.
* `system_sudo_group`: Group used by `sudo`. This is set to `sudo` on Debian-based distros, and `wheel` on all other distros.

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

Including an example of how to use your role (for instance, with variables passed in as parameters) is always nice for users too:

```yml
- hosts: all
  roles:
      - base-system
  vars:
    system_users:
      # Creates a user, jdoe, with the uid of 1000, with sudo privileges. 
      - { uid: 1000, name: "jdoe", comment: "John Doe", password_hash: "pw_hash", groups: ["{{system_sudo_group}}"], state: present }
    system_locale: "en_US.UTF-8"
    system_timezone: "America/Chicago"
```

## License

MIT

## Author Information

Colin Murphy
